## EBS 

- AWS EBS need to mount onto an Amazon EC2 instance. Use cases include transactional databases management, business continuity.

## EFS 

- AWS EFS is a shared, elastic file storage system that grows and shrinks as you add and remove files. You can mount EFS onto several EC2 instances at the same time.

## S3 - Simple Storage Service

- AWS S3 is useful for hosting website images and videos. You can access the S3 service from anywhere on the internet.
- S3 also called as Object Srorage Technology, 
- An Object inside S3 is a file.
- In object storage there is no limit on type or amount for objects. Examples of object Storage : S3, Drop Box, Facebook { videos images }.
- Object storage cannot be mounted as a drive to EC2 instances.
- Object storage is perfect solution for data growth storage problems.
- With S3, you manage your storage in one place with an easy-to-use application interface i.e AWS Management Console.
- As AWS main storage service, S3 can serve many purposes when designing highly available, fault tolerant and secure application.
- Bulk (basically unlimited) static object storage.
- Various storage classes to optimize cost vs needed object availability/durability
- Object versioning
- Access restrictions
- Object management via lifecycle policies
- Hosting static files & websites
- Backups etc
- Amazon S3 is a Global Service.
- Objects stay within an AWS region and are synced across all Az's for extremely high availability and durability.
- Data is stored in Buckets, Buckets are the main storage containers of S3.
- You can store unlimited objects in a bucket, but an object cannot exceed 5 TB.
- Each bucket must have a unique name across ALL of AWS.
- Buckets contains Objects (files).
- S3 provides high availability, Objects are redundantly stored on multiple devices across multiple facilities(AZ's) in an region where bucket exists.


